#finance #mindset 
*If it doesn't pay off the first time, forget it*

Perseverance can serve us well in many areas of life, like getting a straight answer out of the Motor Vehicle Department. There are times in speculation where it can lead to your financial doom.
- Chasing specific stocks like they owe you will blind you to other opportunities.

There are many reasons for this, and they are not as easy to sort out
- The stock owing you, coming from a personification of the speculative entity
- Vague feelings of vengeance
- The wish to have one's judgement vindicated
Each person has their own route to getting over an urge to persevere in a losing venture

## Minor Axiom 15 - Never try to save a bad investment by "averaging down"
#losing
The loss averaging technique is like the roulette systems, where it will work when the player is lucky, adding to its allure. Nothing changes the fact that you did pay $100 dollars for those original shares. It may feel better to see the new average price of $75, but it doesn't do a bit of good for your financial condition
- In a situation where you are tempted to average down, as yourself would I buy at this lower price if I didn't already own it at a higher price? Is it an investment I'd choose today on its merits alone?
- Be sure that it isn't just wishful thinking. Ask yourself why this particular investment, of all the potential bargains around does this really look the most promising to me or am I just trying to make myself feel better by averaging down?
You've lost money on X and want to make it back, but why does it have to come from X? It's the same money anywhere.
- This also encourages you to disregard Major Axiom 3 - On Hope. It gives an excuse for inaction

### Speculative Strategy
Certainly you can persevere in your general effort to improve and grow rich. But not in an attempt to squeeze a gain out of any speculative entity. Don't chase an investment. Reject any thought that an investment "owes" you something, especially the alluring idea that you can improve a bad situation by averaging down. **Value the freedom to choose investments on their merits alone.** By getting obsessed with one bad venture, you give that freedom away.