#finance #forecasting 
*Chaos is not dangerous until it begins to look orderly*

### Noticing Patterns
The minute you think you see an orderly design in the affairs of men and women, including their financial affairs, you are in peril. Thinking you see patters amid the chaos. An illusion of order may seem to be justified by the facts.

It is a fact that the world of money is a world of patternless disorder. Though patterns seem to appear from time to time, they are ephemeral and alluring.
- Especially with something like mutual funds, its easy to be lulled into perceiving order where none exists. It is essentially the same chaos as stocks, art, commodities, currencies, etc.

The truth is that any half-baked moneymaking scheme will work when you are lucky. The majority of advisers ignore luck or pretend it isn't there especially in big institutions.

## Minor Axiom 5 - Beware the Historian's trap
- Proposition that the orderly repetition of history allows for accurate forecasting in certain situations.
It may/may not repeat itself, but most often it doesn't and certainly not reliably enough so to prudently bet money on it. 

## Minor Axiom 6 - Beware the Chartist's Illusion
Technical Analysts often blame themselves for not being astute enough when a trade doesn't go their way. He knows the market can be predicted by charting only if he can figure out what patterns to look for.

## Minor Axiom 7 - Beware the Correlation and Causality Delusions
The human mind is an order-seeking organ. It is uncomfortable with chaos and will retreat from reality if that is the only way it can sort things out to its satisfaction.
- Unless you can actually **see** a cause operating, regard all causal hypothesis with the greatest skepticism. You are always dealing with chaos and conduct your affairs accordingly.

## Minor Axiom 8 - Beware the Gambler's Fallacy
Testing your luck to see if its your lucky day or if you're running hot, etc. Another illusion of order, it seems true and has a rational sound. These stories prove nothing but the fact that winning streaks happen, certainly not order.

### Speculative Strategy
Do not see order where it does exist. This does not mean you should ever not expect to find an advantageous bet or promising investment. Take you best shot at something that looks good. However, despite all the studying the role of chance is still king. 
- It is unlikely that studying has created a sure thing or even a nearly sure thing. 

As long as you stay alert to the fact that you are always dealing with chaos you can keep yourself from getting hurt, as you internalize the change of losing as substantial even though you have edge.