#finance #mindset 
*A hunch can be trusted if it can be explained*

There are 3 distinct approaches to the phenomenon of intuition
1. Scorn
Ignoring their own hunches and laughing at other people's. Insistent on backing all speculative moves with purely facts (even charts, forecasts, etc. ) because to them these are more trustworthy than hunches. Even to the point of making a move when their intuition is telling them no.
2. Indiscriminate trust
People who lean on their hunches too hard and without enough skepticism. Any wayward intuition becomes a reason for making a move, even in the case when rational analysis may say differently.
3. Discriminating use
The idea is that intuition can be useful. The challenge is to discern which are worthy of your attention and which are not

### Hunches
A hunch is a perfectly ordinary mental event. The possibility that a conclusion of your hunch is based on actual solid information that is stored somewhere in your mind. It is just perplexing because its information that you don't know you possess.
- Humans take in a colossal amount of data every day, certainly more than you can store in your conscious mind and recall in the form of discrete data.
A good hunch is something you know but don't know how you know it. So the question should be do you possess a big store of data relevant to your intuition?

##### Trusting Intuition
Could a big enough library of data exist in your mind to have generated that hunch. 
- If it's a hunch about silver, have you absorbed a lot of knowledge about the metal and its complex interrelationships with other economic events?
- If it's a hunch about a person, how well have you known him enough to make character insights plausible?
These hunches should be subject to rigorous testing because sometimes they happen not based on fact, they may come out of nowhere like the brain playing with itself.

A hunch should never lull you into a state of overconfidence. Being critical of a hunch is only improving your odds at success nothing more nothing less.

## Minor Axiom 11 - Never confuse a hunch with a hope
#losing
When you want something to happen, you can all too easily talk yourself into believing it will happen. Be highly skeptical anytime you have a hunch that something you want to happen will happen.
- By contrast you'd be more inclined to trust an intuition pointing to some outcome you don't want.

### Speculative Strategy
It is a mistake to follow the first and second approaches to hunches. It can be a speculative tool if handled with care and skepticism. Intuition is not magical or otherworldly but a manifestation of a perfectly ordinary mental experience of knowing something without knowing how one knows it.
- A hunch can be explained if and only if you can identify the library of information to which that hunch may have reasonably arisen, if not it should be disregarded.
- A hunch should not be confused with hope, you should be wary of any intuition that seems to promise some outcome that you want.

