#finance #fixedincome
## 0.1 - Global Fixed Income Markets
#international
March 2021, global notional for outstanding debt securities is $123 Tn, while the capitalization of global equity markets was $110 Tn.
- US, Eurozone, China, Japan and UK comprise nearly 90% of total issuers of debt.
    - The large fraction of government debt in Japan reflect decades of government borrowing and spending to stimulate their economy.
    - US, Euro, and UK has increased significantly since 2007-2009.
    - US corporations are more likely to issue bonds to the public, while corporations outside the US borrow from intermediaries which raise money from the public.
    
## 0.2 - US Markets
Total outstanding is $76 Tn
- $24.3 Tn Treasuries
- $17.3 Tn Mortgages
- $14.7 Tn Corporate and Foreign Bonds
- $9.0 Tn Loans and Advances
- $4.3 Tn Consumer Credit
- $4.0 Tn Municipal Securities
- $1.8 Tn Agency/GSE Debt
### Treasuries
#treasuries
Grown from the 3rd largest behind mortgages and corporate and foreign bonds to the largest in less than a decade.

The government can fund its deficit spending with T-bills (discount securities), Treasury notes and bonds (coupon securities). Notes are issues with 10 or fewer years to maturity while bonds are more than 10 years.
- Historically, bonds were subject to a maximum, statutory rate of interest but today they are used interchangeably
#### Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS)
#TIPS
rotect investors against inflation with principal amount that depend on CPI.
- Earn a fixed real/inflation-adjusted return while coupon-bearing Treasuries (nominal bonds) earn a nominal/dollar return.
Only 5.6% of the total but have large importance measuring market's perception of inflation and price of inflation risk. 
- Say nominal bonds 2.8% higher than TIPS for the same maturity. Then markets expect average inflation of 2.8% over the subsequent maturity.
- Can also say that given expected inflation and risk, investors require a 2.8% premium to buy nominal bonds and to assume inflation over that maturity.
#### Floating-rate notes (FRN)
#FRN
2% of the market in total. Relatively new, first issued in Jan 2014. Sold with 2 years to maturity with a variable rate of interest equal to the going rate on 13-week T-bills + a fixed spread.
- The spread entices some investors who might otherwise roll investments of short-term T-bills to sacrifice some liquidity and buy two-year FRNs instead.
- For the treasury, it locks in funding for 2 years but at a cost only slightly above that of short-term bills (less than 5 basis points in 2021)
- FRNs seem to cost less than 2 year notes because government accounting of interest rate cost does not penalize risk of rates increasing in the future.
#### Auction Schedule
The auction schedule is set by the treasury to let investors know in advance which securities will be sold when and in what quantities. It is modulated to suit both the borrowing needs of government and changing market conditions
- The most recently issued bonds of each type and maturity tend to be the ones most actively traded.
    - The just issued notes are called x-year on-the-run notes, and are likely to be the most actively traded, while the august will be the old notes, double-old notes, triple-old notes, etc.
#### Nonmarketable securities
- Savings bonds - discount securities sold directly to individual investors
- State and Local Government Series bonds (SLUGs)
##### Government Accounts
Also nonmarketable and represent the debt that the government owes itself, for example social security trust funds. It is argues that these bonds to not represent any additional treasury indebtedness and excluded from most descriptions of government indebtedness (Total debt held by the public)

Debt held by public is usually normalized by GDP, since countries with greater GDPs can safely carry greater levels of debt. 
- Debt to GDP is 100%, higher than 100% during WW2 and COVID, 80% during financial crisis.
- 230% in Japan, 175% in Greece, 100% in France, 85% in the UK
Foreign investors still find US treasuries attractive despite high ratio of US debt to GDP
### Municipal Securities
#municipal
More than 50,000 issuers and ~1,000,000 individual bond issues, issued by states and local government to fund their expenditures. Dominated by retail investors (over 70%) and indirectly by individuals through mutual funds and other investment vehicles.
- As long as funds raised are used for public projects, payments are exempt from federal tax
- Capital gains on price appreciation from munis is not exempt, so the market has evolved to minimize the proportion of return in the form of taxed price appreciation rather than untaxed interest.
- In a low-rate environment munis have a 5% coupon and consequently at a premium to par. They are therefore unlikely to trade at a discount and subject buy and hold purchasers to taxes on capital gains.
- Depends on the state if bonds are taxed in other states and exempt their own bonds. DC does not tax any while Utah exempts munis issues in states that exempt Utah's bonds (states with no income tax automatically qualify).
$500 bn of munis that don't qualify are used for working capital, funding private business development, refinancing existing debt. These pay rates comparable to corporate and Treasury markets controlling for difference in credit quality.
#### 3 Broad Categories
- General Obligation (GO) bonds - 25% of the market, backed by the taxing power of the issuing municipality
- Revenue Bonds - 66%, backed by revenues from particular projects like tolls from a highway
    - Industrial revenue bonds $600 bn subset of tax exempt debt for private enterprises engaged in qualifying projects.
- Prefunded/defeased bonds - canceled as a municipal liability. Cash and Treasury securities are set aside to fund the remaining payment obligations (credit risk improved to that of treasuries).
#### Default risk
Much lower than the equivalent corporate bonds (0.08% from 1970-2020). GO bonds were considered safer than revenue bonds until Detroit went bankrupt in 2013. Holders of water and sewer bonds suffered no loss of principal while GO bonds suffered significant losses.
- GO bonds are now treated like unsecured claims.
- **Before 2008, majority of muni bonds were insured against default for a fee by private insurers. These insurers suffered but from having insured MBS during 2008. The damage to the industry resulted in less than 5% of muni issues being insured, now the number is around 10%**
### Other US Markets
#### Mortgages
Loans used to purchase properties and collateralized by those same properties. 
## 0.3 - US Market Participants
## 0.4 - Monetary Policy with Abundant Reserves
## 0.5 - Negative Rates and QE in Europe and Japan
## 0.6 - Trading and Liquidity
